
upgrade

Upgrade will do a lot things for you, but the general purpose is to upgrade
outdated packages. It will not install new packages and it will not remove
unavailable packages. Only outdated packages are taken into account.

Its main actions are downloading, verifying package signatures and upgrading,
using upgradepkg, the packages that are outdated. It will do extra things
sometimes, like letting you review .new files or letting you choose a specific
package version if several are available, but its usage is mostly intuitive.

When it prompts you to choose a specific package version, it will also print
the version currently installed just above the choice question, as this may
give you clues about which one you may want to install.

For a description on how reviewing .new files works, read the help on the
"dotnew" topic.

This operation requires no arguments, but you can optionally append
'--auto-select' to automatically ignore any installation candidates that don't
have the same build suffix as an already-installed version.  For example, if
you have only an _SBo version of a particular package installed, this option
will prevent 'slackroll upgrade' from automatically replacing it with a version
from a remote repository.  This can be particularly useful if you use a
third-party repository which provides alternate versions for a large number of
standard packages, such as _lngn (KDE Plasma 6).  Without '--auto-select',
slackroll would manually prompt you to choose between the standard and
third-party versions of every package that exists in both repos.  With
'--auto-select', slackroll assumes that any packages that only have _lngn
versions currently installed should continue to follow the _lngn versions, any
any packages with only _alien versions installed should continue to follow the
_alien repository, etc.  You normally shouldn't have different versions of a
package locally installed, but if for some reason you do, '--auto-select' will
consider upgrades that match /any/ of the already-installed versions.

Also see: list-transient, list-upgrades, upgrade-key-packages.

